### In neuroscience, one of the most important objectives in recent decades has been to rehabilitate people who no longer have a functioning connection between their mind and their body. A brain computer interface (BCI) based on motor imagery can detect the EEG patterns of various imagined motions, such as right or left hand movement. It allows for entirely non-muscular communication.
### This is already being done effectively using costly, medical grade EEG gear, but owing to the high cost, it has not yet reached the commercial market. In this project, I investigate about how low-cost EEG hardware in a BCI, can be implemented, in a proof-of-concept manner. As a result, I used state of the art feature extraction and categorization techniques. Using CSP for feature extraction and LDA as classifier.
### BCIs are communication systems that seek to provide people with an alternative control input to computers. Changes in brain signal modulation are detected by BCIs and translated into control instructions. Electroencephalography (EEG) is now used as the primary acquisition technique for BCI. The obtained EEG signal is a macroscopic assessment of neuronal activity in the brain, which is mediated by a layer of bone, tissue, and fluid. As a result, EEG has poor spatial resolution, and the signal collection through surface electrodes makes EEG vulnerable to interference from a number of sources, including bodily movement, power line noise, and other electronic equipment.
### Despite the increasing attention that BCI technology has received with the introduction of low-cost commercial EEG devices in recent years, BCIs are seldom utilised outside of the laboratory setting. This is mostly because existing BCI systems lack reliability and performance when compared to other kinds of interfaces. MI-BCI, for example, requires lengthy training trials each session, and the parameters are subject-specific. As a result, these lengthy and repeated training sessions may cause user fatigue and deterioration in performance over time. Furthermore, extended training is difficult in producing EEG oscillatory rhythms regulated during MI, such as mu (μ) and beta (β). To address these problems, previous BCI research has looked at different methods for developing novel experimental designs, specialised algorithms, and signal processing techniques that reduce the existing limits of EEG-based BCIs.
### This project is based on these previous finding, to build  machine learning models that can help accurately classifier hands and feet movement. To make the work easier, this project will assume both left and right hand movement as one, and both left and right foot movement as one. Also, the data set corporated into this project is semi-preprocessed, which will help speed up the process.
### The aim of this project is to develop a proof-of-concept for a 2-class BCI, which implies that two distinct motor imagery tasks should be differentiated with a high degree of accuracy. Motor imaging tasks that are well-suited offer the greatest potential spatial dispersion in terms of brain activity. The user must also be able to visualise the matching bodily action well enough for the BCI to recognise it. Hand and leg motions were utilised in this project because they immediately result in activity in the motor cortex or the cerebellum. These two movements are now extensively utilised for 2-class motor imagery BCIs, and I employ them as well for this task.

## According to the source of the data set, the EEG recording followed the procedure described below.
### The participants sat comfortably in a chair with armrests in front of a computer screen. At the start of a trial (t = 0s), a cue in the shape of a text symbolising hand or feet appeared and was printed 5 times, each signifying 2 seconds. During this period, participants were instructed to complete the necessary motor imaging task until the next cue occurred at t = 10s. During the recording, no feedback was given.

## The data preprocessing stage, according to the source of the data set is described below.
### Preprocessing plays an important role in BCIs. Its main goal is to improve the signal to noise ratio (SNR), which will enhance the performance of the ensuing steps. By signal the components of brain signals that reflect the users intention are meant. Preprocessing can be partitioned into spatial and temporal filtering. 

### Preprocessing is very essential in BCIs. Its primary aim is to increase the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), which will improve the performance of the subsequent stages. The components of brain signals that represent the user's purpose are intended by signal. Preprocessing may be divided into two categories: spatial filtering and temporal filtering. Spatial filtering takes use of the fact that most EEG recordings include several channels. This may be used to eliminate background noise. The most common spatial filtering technique is Common Average Reference. The common average reference (CAR) technique is used to fine-tune the signal obtained by subtraction of the average of all electrodes at each electrode. This is very effective for minimising noise that is shared by all electrodes and therefore increasing usable brain occurrences of signals at electrodes. Temporal filtering consists of many techniques such as Band pass filter, Notch filter and Detrend Time Series Data.

## The feature extraction technique employed is as described below.
### The goal of feature extraction is to decrease the dimensionality of the data to a feature vector of a certain size that can subsequently be utilised for classification. There are many methods for extracting such features, each focused on a particular characteristic or property of the data.
### For the sake of the study, a common spatial pattern was used for optimal data shape. A spatial filter with common spatial patterns (CSP) is a subtype of a spatial filter. It is a supervised technique, as opposed to PCA, and therefore needs class label information for each training sample. CSP optimises the variance-ratio of two classes; that is, CSP finds a transformation matrix that produces feature vectors with the greatest variance for the first class in the first few items and the greatest variance for the second class in the last few elements.
